# votizen
VotiZen is built to make voting more secure and reliable that can be used by individuals on their phones/tablets making the process of voting simple yet secure increasing the participation. The app has two kinds of users – Admin and Voter. To login as an Admin, the person has to enter the registered Email ID and Password. This feature is only available to the select members of the Election Commission. On successful login, they are provided with 2 options, Live Polls and Candidate. On selecting live polls one can view the live results with the support of Azure Blockchain. On selecting the candidate option, one will be provided with 2 more options of adding a candidate or editing the details of a candidate. To add a candidate to the list, the Admin should enter the State, Ward number, first name, last name, party name, promises made and promises fulfilled, criminal records, upload his photograph and party’s symbol. The option to edit / delete the candidate details are available. Moving on to the user part, the User/Voter has no login option. On clicking the user option, the user is taken to a page where he has to type his 12-digit Aadhar Card number. This will verify if the user is 18 or not and if they have already voted that day. If voter is below 18 or has already voted for the on-going elections, he/she is not allowed to continue further and sound is triggered to alert the authorities. Else, user continues to the next stage where the user identity is verified. There are three options for verification: Fingerprint verification which serves well in areas with internet connection, OTP method that can work in places that have good network coverage or Pin generation for each voter if they live in remote area with almost no network. On successful verification of their identity, they will be asked to choose their state and input their ward number. The details of the candidates contesting in the corresponding state and ward will be displayed to the user. This particular segment also enables the user to make an apt decision as the profile of the candidate is displayed. After choosing the candidate to vote, a popup regarding the vote submission is displayed. After the vote has been successfully cast, a success message is displayed and is re-directed to the welcome page for the next user to vote. The major advantages of VotiZen are: one can vote irrespective of the location he/she lives in using the app, no problem of name missing from the voter list arises as Aadhar card number is used [all the users with Aadhar card and is above 18 is eligible to vote], one need not apply for a separate voter-id card, the system is secured with Azure Blockchain, live polls and decision helper options are provided to make the process of voting more reliable and transparent and works irrespective of the network. We will also be having a website which can generate the Aadhar pin number and predict the voting trends with Azure ML Services.     
